Your use of the content either ordered by you from this site or consumed on this site or other sites is at your sole risk.
Content is for instructional purposes only. All athletic endeavors, martial arts, and self-defense techniques carry inherent risk.
Company is not liable or responsible for any injury to you, any other person or any property.
Further, you agree to release the Company from any and all claims and liability related to your use of any content.
MANDIBLE STRANGLE
GORDON RYAN
All right, so last but not least, we'll look at the Mandible Strangle when we're on the underhook side, but we can't manage to get our hand underneath our partner's jaw.
So we have to unlock or we have to manage to lock our hands in a full rear naked to be able to actually finish our partner.
Okay? So, this is assuming that I can't get underneath my partner's jaw.
And I end up in a position where I'm here.
This is going to mean that I'm going to have to lock my two hands together and go for a full rear naked in order to not, uh, in order to actually finish my partner. Okay?
Now, the issue is, well, like I said, if we have a hand underneath our partner's jaw, then we can lock your hands, right? If my hand's not underneath my partner's jaw, the issue is,
in order to extract my right hand, I have to take my right elbow to the axis that my shoulder line lies on. And that right now is impossible, because when I go to extract my right elbow, it runs into the floor. If I try to move away from my partner to pull my elbow free, then I relinquish head positioning and now she can scoot out and start her escape.
So what am I to do here?
Whenever I see a situation like this, I immediately look to take my, uh, my elbow out, I flare my elbow out, and that allows me to pull myself up to my elbow.
A big mistake that people make is they try to pull themselves up right from here. You're activating your abs and it's very difficult to do.
But when I flare my right elbow out like so, it makes it incredibly easy now for me to pull myself up, and now that I can pull myself up, now my elbow and my shoulder line lie in the same axis.
Only now can I extract my hand, because now, number one, I don't relinquish head positioning, and number two, my elbow is in perfect position, where now from here, I can palm my hand from in front of my partner's wrist, to behind her back, and now as I fall, he can lock in a full strangle. And now from here, once again, we finish with the Mandible up and over the jaw. It takes a little bit longer to strangle your partner, because you have more mass to cover, you're not directly under your partner's carotid arteries. You have to push the jaw back into the carotid in order to finish, uh, but you will get full finishes with the Mandible over the time span, and we can finish our partner easily. I'm not going to do it because her jaw's hurt, but you can get strong finishes with Mandible strangles up and over the jaw. There's plenty of examples of this in competition of people actually going unconscious.
It's a strangle, it's not a crank. There are people documented footage of people going unconscious from this. It's, you know, it's very uh, it's very commonly known it's a full strangle and not a crank, all right? Um, so in case there was any confusion there.
So Mandible strangles are for when I can't get underneath my partner's jaw. If I can get underneath my partner's jaw, then we just finish with one hand with the garrote.
If not, then we move to a Mandible strangle. So we get all the way across our partner's center line like so. We get our hand into proper position, and now we have to pull ourselves up to an elbow to get our shoulders on the same axis as our elbow.
So if I just pull myself up from here, it's impossible.
If I flare my elbow out first and now pull myself up, now my elbow and my shoulder form one straight line. Now my hand comes out and goes behind my partner's back.
And now as I fall, it shoots my fingertip right into my bicep and we lock up.
And now from here, we finish with a strong Mandible strangle over the course of 10 to 20 seconds, and we get an extremely strong finish over our partner's jaw.
So if we're underneath our partner's jaw, we go garrote single arm. If we're over our partner's jaw, we come out and we go, uh, full rear naked, lock in place.
If at any point, whether it be from the underhook or the overhook side, my partner manages to catch my wrist for example,
and start to pull my wrist down, I can use a palm to palm grip to put a wedge behind her shoulder.
So now, as she goes to pull my hand down, there's a wedge behind her shoulder, and I can use that to strip the grip off and punch my hand in.
Whether it's from the underhook or the overhook side, so for example, I can't get underneath her jaw or I can't get underneath her jaw, whatever the case is. She grabs a grip on my wrist with whatever hand. I can use a palm to palm grip to put a wedge behind her shoulder. Now when she goes to strip my hand off, she pulls, she's pulling my own hand into the back of her shoulder.
When she goes to pull that hand down, she can't. And now when I'm ready, I can make a transition to a full strangle.
Okay? So, whether it be in the overhook side or when your partner tries to pull your hand down, you can always go palm to palm. And now as she goes to pull the hand down, we make a transition where we lift the elbow and cover hand to hand and punch it in.
Or on the overhook underhook side rather, we come through.
As her hand goes to reach my hand and goes to pull my hand down, we come in with a grip like so. So when she goes to pull that hand off, it's difficult.
Now, as we fall, we turn the hand over, we go in palm to palm or palm to the back of the hand rather. So as she goes to pull that hand down, she pulls it into her own shoulder.
Now as we fall, our hand meets the top of our hand. She has a strong grip on the wrist. Presumably, she can only get to my wrist. And as she goes to pull that hand down, we go hand over hand. And as she goes to pull the wrist now, the hand's reinforced by my own hand and we can punch that hand in for a strangle and get to a win. Okay? So some interesting concept there with the Mandible Strangle assuming we can't get a hand underneath our partner's hand. Or underneath our partner's chin rather.